# Project Assignment #1: Project Proposal
## Research Question Introduction
I've been checking coding competitions in Kaggles. The petfinder's project  [Predict the popularity of shelter pet photos](https://www.kaggle.com/c/petfinder-pawpularity-score/overview "Predict the popularity of shelter pet photos") caught my eyes immediately. I want to use the provided data as my final project, and put my pets' pictures to predict their possible popularity. This project would include **data analysis and machine learning**.
### Why important, why it matters, what is at stake, what insights you expect to gain 
Last month my boyfriend and I adopted my kitten Simba (Yes, this is the cat that was stepping and running on my keyboard on Wednesday's class) from a shelter that is almost 60 miles away from us. Without any reponse from the shelter, just one single picture in petfinder, we drove there immediately after we saw his cute cat paws. Before that we had been to many shelters and met so many stray animals, all after we saw some cute animal friends we would want to meet. Petfinder.com has options for shelters and rescuers to set up the pet profile, their basic features, but from my experience, the first sight from the pictures matters the most. I think this project can help improve people find their ideal animal friends, as well as more animal waiting to be adopted find their forever home. It can also guide shelters and rescuers to take better pictures to increase the chance that these animals being favored at the first sight. 
I also adopted a puppy in my home country China, where animal rescuing growing rapidly these few years. But we are not doing enough. I was also volunteering and helping local shelters, and writing a lot to government facilities for animal protection laws. I really hope this project can provide some insights, at least for myself, to improve animal rescue and promote stray animal adoption.
### Description of data sources
Here's the link of data sources. [Final Project Datasets: Petfinder Popularity of shelter pet photos prediction](https://www.kaggle.com/c/petfinder-pawpularity-score/data "Final Project Datasets: Petfinder Popularity of shelter pet photos prediction")
#### - The Pawpularity Score (isn't this a cute expression!)
The Pawpularity Score is derived from each pet profile's page view statistics at the listing pages, using an algorithm that normalizes the traffic data across different pages, platforms (web & mobile) and various metrics. Duplicate clicks, crawler bot accesses and sponsored profiles are excluded from the analysis.
#### - Test and Train
The data is consisted of test data and train data. To be noted, the train.csv and test.csv files contain metadata for photos in the training set and test set, respectively. They featured each photo features such as photo quality, pet action, etc.
### Intended analysis and resulting visualizations
There would be two parts of this projects. The first part is **exploratory data analysis and visualization**. In this part, I would analysis the Pawpularity Score distribution and the photo features. There would be distribution graphics for the score, and some graphs like pie chart depending on the datasets. The second part would be **machine learning**. I have some basic knowledge about ML and I read in our syllabus that we'll actually learn it. I'm also taking machine learning with R class to enhance. So I hope to be able to train and predict the score of given photos. I also want to predict the possible popularity score of my pets since they were also stray animals.
